SOURCE: PantherNOW (FIU student newspaper) — Letter to the Editor
URL: https://panthernow.com/2011/10/21/letter-to-the-editor-healthy-options-available-on-campus/
TITLE: LETTER TO THE EDITOR: Healthy options available on campus
AUTHOR: Nura Mickler, graduate student (nutrition, interned with Panther Dining)
DATE: 2011-10-21

In response to a student's concern that the campus lacks healthy eating options published on Oct 5, 2011 I would like to address a few things from the point of view of a nutrition graduate student who has interned with Panther Dining and the Fresh Food Company.

Healthy dining options are definitely offered on campus, however making healthier choices depends on us students.

With more than 20 dining options and restaurants around the FIU campus, we have many healthy eating options. Even if most venues are fast food restaurants, each location still presents some healthier choices.

Any student interested in doing his/her homework on available healthier options, will be able to choose amongst a variety of food based on his/her individual goal/need: low fat, vegetarian, vegan, food higher in omega-3 fatty acids or food for a balanced meal or snack.

Healthier options are not limited to Salad Creations or Subway, since each location has more than a handful of healthy choices. Consuming the right portion size along with proper calorie intake will always be key to our nutrition and should be based on our individual needs.

Panther Dining caters to most student needs and eating habits. When the student comes into Fresh Food Co. they have the opportunity to walk by the different areas and enjoy the foods of their choosing. Fresh Food Co. has a variety of fresh vegetables for salads and plenty of fresh fruits such as kiwi, melon, pineapple and grapefruits. For vegetarians, there is always a large salad bar, a hot vegetarian entrée and soup offered on a 4-week menu cycle. Additionally, P.O.D. has some good frozen Indian Cuisine, vegetarian options, and an Organic line of entrées.

One can also purchase a large selection of nuts including walnuts which are a good source of omega-3-fatty acids. Various foods that have omega-3-fatty acids are served around campus such as salmon, tuna and certain types of sushi.

Informed choices on what and how much to eat need to be made or one can easily consume excess calories leading to weight gain over time. The student can go online in advance and browse the many menu options that are offered and the nutritional value of each.

Student feedback regarding food options is a sign of a growing awareness in college aged students. In order to assist students to make healthier choices, the Panther Dining Marketing is developing a healthier Panther options link on the website and also has plans for providing more nutrition information.
