SOURCE: PantherNOW (FIU student newspaper) — Food guide
URL: https://panthernow.com/2023/06/30/best-places-to-eat-near-fius-modesto-maidique-campus/
TITLE: Best places to eat near FIU's Modesto Maidique Campus
AUTHOR: Andres Rivera, Staff Writer
DATE: 2023-06-30

As FIU students get caught up in projects and homework, they can forget the most crucial assignment: to eat.

From select meat to tea, these restaurants offer various options for students in any mood, including vegetarian and vegan options.

Here are five food spots a short drive from FIU's Modesto Maidique campus to stop by before, between, or after class to grab a bite.

Rancho Mateo: Located just three minutes away from the FIU main campus, this Colombian steakhouse is the perfect spot to get some filling food before afternoon classes and enjoy live music. Rancho Mateo is open from 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. on weekdays and 9 a.m. to 3 a.m. on weekends.

Al Forno: Al Forno makes pizza with a Neapolitan wood oven and is five minutes from campus. Their traditional Italian-style food is available for takeout or delivery. Al Forno is open on Tuesday to Sunday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.

El Manchego: Located four minutes from campus and available for reservation, El Manchego is an authentic Spanish restaurant that serves seafood, fresh meat and drinks, complete with a happy hour from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday through Thursday. El Manchego is open on Tuesday to Thursday from noon to 10:30 p.m, Friday to Saturday from noon to midnight, and Sunday from noon to 10:00 p.m.

SpecialTEA Lounge and Cafe: Take time off from studies with calming teas, rich coffees, and baked cafe goods, which are available to order online. SpecialTEA Lounge and Cafe is open on weekdays 8 a.m. to 11 p.m, Saturday 11 a.m to 11 p.m, and Sunday 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.

109 Burger Joint: This old-fashioned burger place is three minutes from campus, and serves artisan burgers and craft beers available to order online. 109 Burger Joint is open on Monday to Thursday from noon to 10 p.m, Friday to Saturday from noon to midnight, and Sunday from 12:30 p.m. to 8 p.m.

El Toro Loco: Located ten minutes away down 8th Street, El Toro Loco showcases an authentic Brazilian menu, complete with a hearty selection of meats, sandwiches and wines. El Toro Loco is open on Monday to Saturday from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. and Sunday from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m.
