SOURCE: PantherNOW (FIU student newspaper) — News
URL: https://panthernow.com/2018/09/18/new-dining-hall-replaces-fresh/
TITLE: New dining hall replaces 'Fresh'
AUTHOR: Anna Radinsky, Assistant News Director
DATE: 2018-09-18

FIU dining is expanding health-based meals and wellness education services through the updated residential dining hall area, 8th Street Campus Kitchen.

The 8th Street Campus Kitchen has replaced the former residential dining hall area in the Graham Center, The Fresh Food Company, to provide menu options based on freshness and nutrition.

Chartwells, the new food vendor at the University, changed the name of the hall to represent the University's official address and celebrate the popular Miami street that includes Calle Ocho.

Richard Hurst, the system executive chef for Chartwells, said that all of the ingredients and meals in the hall are fresh; sustainable, notably when it comes to seafood; have no preservatives or MSG; are low fat, low sugar, low sodium; made from non-GMO fertilizers; and are completely made from scratch.

While also providing health-conscious options for students, the current and future menu options will cater to international cuisines, according to Josue Rodriguez, the marketing manager for Chartwells. Rodriguez said that Chartwells recognized the diversity of the University and wanted to meet all the cultural and dietary needs of all students.

One section of the hall contains a salad bar that caters more to vegetarians and vegans. It also contains two hot entrees that are switched out twice a day to provide more variability for menu options.

Kosher items are not officially marked as kosher but chefs are available to answer questions about which dishes or ingredients are.

Another section was reserved for those whose diets are gluten-free, along with those who are allergic to soy, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, dairy or eggs. Food in this section is prepared separately from other foods that might contain allergens. There is even a separate toaster and gluten-free bread for those whose diets are gluten-free.

Some students think that the 8th Street Campus Kitchen is similar to Fresh, but it also contains elements that make it unique.

"There's a whole seasoning tray and that's really cool," said Ariel McGanee, a sophomore majoring in psychology. "I just think that there are more flavors now and I like that. It's an improvement from what it was before."

Most of the ingredients are locally sourced, meaning they come from a 250 mile radius around the University. Many of the ingredients within the dishes are also seasonal to maximize the use of the food, according to Gabriela Alfonso, the Chartwells higher ed registered dietitian.

8th Street Campus Kitchen is trying to use more seasonal foods and educate the public about them by introducing a program called "Superfood of the Month."

Another program that the dining hall is looking forward to expand on is Project Clean Plate, where students are educated hands-on about the level of food waste. Two weeks ago, students were told that 3,000 pounds of food that could have been composted or eaten was thrown away in one day.
